Great, thank you.
Cool. So it's a storytelling game and it's also really a question and answer game.
I think as we'll see when I get into it here, like what you really want to do when you're when you're walking through your Your model with investors is generated back and forth.
You want to get the investor asking questions. You want to get them exposing. Concerns, which you're going to answer and alleviate.
And that starts by kind of doing that assessment yourself. So I think it's very useful as you guys get up to plan your raise if you haven't already, you know, use your model as as as a tool in that planning period to say, hey, like, what, what are the milestones that you want to reach with this capital, map those out?
How are you gonna get there? You know, you kind of map that path, that operational, that financial roadmap in the model and basically say, okay, if I'm gonna hit those milestones, What resources do I need to get there?
You know, and then ultimately what cash do I need to buy those resources to get those milestones?
Yes, I think it's very helpful and kind of sharpening the axe on the on the front end of arrays and then inevitably when you do get those.
Same questions from investors. You thought through it, you've got a good answer and you have a model, you know, to back it up.
So I think it's a storytelling game. It's a question and answer game.
And it's really, it's really something that counterintuitively drives a lot more results in the earlier stages of fundraising than it does in the later stages.
And what I mean by that is, you know, like you're at the stage of business that I'm at and you've raised 9 million, your next round of Series A.
It's like, it's completely table stakes for me to have a great model at this point to be able to speak to it to understand my core economics like there's no way I'm gonna raise a series, a, especially not in this market without a good handle on the on the core economics of the business.
But at the preceded seed stage, that's not always the case. Like there's a lot of founders that are out there, you know, just kind of flying by the seed of their pants, they're looking to raise capital, they have no clue, you know, as to the, as to the financial mechanics of the company, the economics of the company, which isn't to say that anybody would have
it all figured out. Nobody does at that level, but they haven't really thought through it. And I think that's the reason why if you're the type of founder that kind of takes this stuff seriously that really digs in on the financial aspect of the business and at least makes a plan and has, you know, the financial aspect of the business and at least makes a plan and has, you know, thought through the financial aspects of
the business and at least makes a plan and has, you know, thought through the financial aspects of the company and can can articulate that to investors.
It's a real pack separator in fundraising. It's 1 of those things that, you know, all you know, maybe this other company's got good, founding team just like you and great traction and great market opportunity just like you, but they're rolling in they're really not prepared to talk about the financial aspect of the business and you are you know you're gonna get that check over them
and so I think kind of game, you know, I think you can be a great business and still fail to raise capital so you gotta do everything you can to do risk it.
And I think really building a model, owning a model and being capable of, you know, talking to the financial aspect of the company or it really tends to resonate with investors who are, you know, Yeah. Finance people, right?
There are people that are gonna hang in their hat on that game. So Stories on game, and answer game.
It's and it's an early stage game. And that's my preamble.
So, now, we'll get into kind of the main 2 2 topics of the day, which is like, how do you use your model to pitch back to drive conversion into a diligence process into a second meeting with investors and then ultimately how do you present that model in a way that drives confidence.
So, Maybe real quick there, you know, before we get into that any, burning questions or comments, you know, on what we've.
Covered this far.
Looks like so far so good.
Sweet, sweet. Okay, so the picture, pretty simple. Yeah, and I'm sure you guys obviously are all putting together a deck and just like, I mean, demo days, I think the most extreme example of this, but in my opinion, 1st meetings with investors is not about closing investors.
It's about building interest. It's about setting the hook. It's about conversion and diligence.
So the pitch to actually lead with all the interest building hooky elements of your story, you know, the vision.
The market opportunity, the problem, the traction, things that are gonna generate investor interest. Your financial model is not going to like get an investor excited about investing in your company.
You know, it's more of a closing diligence item. So we don't want to leave within the deck.
We want to put it at the very butt end of the deck and we're just trying to flash basically the financial forecast in front of investors.
So I like to keep it really simple, super simple annual, you know, income statement is perfectly fine.
In fact, it's preferred for me. I think a very simple slide like this indicates like financial acumen, you know, if you try to make it too fancy, it kind of sometimes I think sends a little bit of a different signal.
So I just like super plain like this, annual income statements summarized. And you're just trying to just signal to the investor, hey.
Yeah, you've thought that if the financial aspect of the business, you have goals, you have plans, you're thinking big and you're prepared to talk about, you know, how the business grows, how the business scales, how the business makes money, you know, so when I get to this slide, the end of my day.
Yeah, I make a very simple statement. I say, look, we're the type of founding team that really believes in making plans and setting goals and look we recognize we're an early stage company like there are a lot of unknowns here but I think there's a ceiling for this business.
I'm super confident and what we can do here and like my than anything we've just we thought through this business.
I think we have a really sound coherent plan for how we're going to scale this company and at the end of the day if I've done my job here today and I've convinced you of the merits of this investment I would love to spend an hour with you sometime early next week.
Just walk into the financial model that backs up these projections. I think that would be a great bedrock for strategic conversation about this business that would help us both understand.
You know, if this is a good deal for both sides. Something like that, right? Something that expresses confidence that recognizes they don't have it all figured out because the forecast is not is not like a you know it's gonna be wrong we all know that so I think like you know coming up with that on the front end but but still expressing confidence in your plan and more than anything painting a picture of what a second
meeting could look like. Paint the picture like wanting to walk through the model with them, which gives them something to latch on to.
It gives you something to circle back to at the end of the meeting. And it allows you to get a better conversion through your specificity.
If that makes any sense. That's the 1st thing I think it's very simple and you'll see this.
It might, I can just, I'm gonna go through this stuff and then like, like I said, I've raised 9 million for forecaster.
We're raising another 3 right now, you know, and I do all this stuff and, so I'll show you like we raised 4.5 million last year.
I'm gonna show you the deck I used to raise that capital. I'll show you the model I used and walk through it a little bit.
So you'll see how this how this works in my deck and just in just a minute. But that's the next piece.
Same with Dex like at the end of the day fundraising is a game of storytelling and you're, the narrator that story you're the orator of that story you're telling that story and stories are told not Not shared like that.
I think it's like you really need to hold those resources hostage. You want the meeting is where the value occurs.
So you need to force the meeting. And so in this context, if you are asked for financial model and it you know just yes and investors will ask sometimes I say hey you know just share me share with me your model review it I'll let you know if I have questions.
That's not what you want. You're gonna lose a lot of leverage in doing that.
You really want to lightly say, hey, like I think the real value of walking through the model isn't you reviewing the model.
It's us having a strategic conversation about the business oriented around the numbers. And I think it's worth both of our time to sit down and have that conversation.
If we really think that there's a deal, good deal here for both sides. Once we have that conversation, which I think would be great, I'm happy to share a copy of the model with you so you can stress test it.
I recognize the importance of that. Yeah, does Tuesday at 10 work for you? And that usually works.
I usually get to the meeting. And the reason for that is you do wanna control that narrative.
Like I think it's very human. That when we receive new information as people, you know, we form opinions about that information and then once we've formed an opinion, yeah, it tends to be kind of hard to change our opinions.
And so you want someone coming in fresh to a meeting without an opinion so that you can bend their opinion to your favor.
It's a psychology game. You're playing when you're raising capital. So you need to hold those resources hostage.
You need to, you need people coming in with more or less blank slate. Yeah, so you can call in the narrative so you can pitch the company, you know, and you can get them to see the world as you see it.
Yeah, and then when you're in the when you're in the meeting, you know, it's It's a lot more about talking about the business over top of the model than it is about talking about the model.
So you'll see this when I go through mine, but you don't need to be getting into the formulas, the assumptions, the nitty gritty, certainly not if an investor doesn't ask you to.
You want to stay high level, you want to stay strategic and you want to make it a conversation like your job in that meeting is not to tell the investor how your business works.
It's, it's to have a strategic conversation about the business with the investor and it's to extract any kind of concerns that they have.
About the business that might be keeping them from investing so that you can alleviate those concerns through your.
So you're a greater understanding of the business. You, and you know your business 10 times better than they do.
So you want to understand their concern and you want to alleviate their concern and that happens to conversation.
So we'll see that, you know, when I go through mine. But that's, the piece I find most founders, it's not intuitive.
Like most founders intuitive to talk a lot about the model and maybe go into the assumptions of why they made the assumption that they're making by that often times like it just kinda opens up a bunch of cans of worms and a bunch of potential areas for risk and it bogs down the meeting potential areas for risk and it bogs down the meeting.
You know, you really want to just stick to the high level talking points. And it bogs down the meeting.
You know, you really want to just stick to the high level talking points, less is more, to stick to the high level talking points, less is more unless you're asked to go deep in which case you need to be prepared to and then after the meeting.
Just always follow up something basic, you know, there, but it's just I'm big team like anytime you have a meeting with an investor, you need to have a time bound specific next step at the time you get off that meeting that's ideal just like sales so leave yourself time at the end of the meeting to define that next step, always follow up right after the meeting with that next step and you can totally
share a copy of the model after the meeting. In fact, it is wise to do that. You know, so you know, you can share a link to the model and forecast if you do that, you can do the same thing in Google sheets or share a copy of your model in Excel, you know, and that way the investor has some time to dig in deeper, after the meeting once you've had a chance to say your
piece. Yeah, we got a question.
Hello.
Yeah.
Okay.
Jenny, where you gonna go? Sorry, Jenny. So yeah, hi, Stephen.
Nope.
Thanks.
I think Dundee was very
Yeah.
Yes, hi Stephen. Thanks for, for sharing your insights on this. I just had a question.
So this process where you effectively, try to, what try to hold the model hostage, in order to get the meeting.
It presupposes that you are the next stage after that is that then you share your data room if you have a situation where the investor is already kind of brought in and this
Just skip the model and just said, okay, let's share your data room.
Kind of handle that because the model would be in the data room. So do you then share access to data without the model or do you insist on the model on having a conversation about model before you bring that back up?
Because I don't know, I just, I'm just trying to. To think about what you've done in the past and when you've raised money because I've not everything follows the same clip things happen differently sometimes.
Yeah. A 100%. It's a fantastic question and topic. And so my advice is in the data room to not put the model itself.
Or if you do put the model itself to password, protect it. That's what I like to do because I want to generate the conversation.
So because I use forecaster what I do is I put like a PDF of the of the forecast in the in the in the data room.
Forecast and there the output of the model but I don't put the model itself so that when somebody gets to the data room like I have that 1st meeting, I share a dinner. I'm like, yeah, cool. I'm totally prepared.
I'll share that right away. I share it. They get in there. They see the forecast, but they don't see the model.
They reach out. They're like, Hey, you know, I see the forecast. I don't see the model.
You have a model the backs up. I'm like, yes, I do. I've been a lot of time into that model.
Really understand the financial aspect of this business. I've done just been 45 min to do walk into that model.
I'm happy to share you a copy. You know, do you have, you know, I'm I'm pretty free Tuesday at 10 or Thursday as well.
Yeah, that kind of thing. Or if you do use Excel, you can do the same thing.
You just put the file in there, password protect it. You go sheets. I think you could do the same thing if I'm not mistaken.
So I just kinda like, you know, you wanna just tease it out so that you generate that conversation and, and then go for it.
So that you can try to get those, to get those second meetings. I like to do that with the number of things like.
This is like the more meeting time you can get with an investor, the better chances you have of getting the investment in my opinion.
So I'm looking for all those ways to get somebody back into a room, you know, where we can have a face to face.
Thanks, Stephen. Appreciate it.
Jennifer? That's absolutely.
That was a great question. I'm just going further from that. Like. What if for different investors you have, you know, you wanna show different things?
I know like Try had mentioned this in our financial modeling workshop. But like if you have a few different versions of your model.
So like in 4, so in forecasters, they're outability to. Have, you know, different variations and saved versions to send to investors.
Yes, there is. So, so I, am big team. You have like, and there's differences in opinions about this.
To be honest, I came in recall where Troy is on this spectrum, but my personal philosophy, which all, this is all talk about this one is like, I like to have one official.
That I'm raising on. That's the forecast is in the deck. That's the model that I'm presenting. It's 1 model.
It's 1 picture of the future. It's high conviction on a plan. You know, but then within that plan, there is like stress testing, right? You might get into a meeting with an investor and they're saying, well, like you have the 15%.
I think that sounds high, what if it's 12%?
I would say, well, what if it's
12%. Let's clone the model. Let's make it 12. Let's see what that is.
Oh, still a great business. So you might have these kind of like, yeah, these kind of scenarios like you're talking about there.
I like doing that. I think that's good because you're not trying to defend the model to the ends of the earth.
You're trying to show the investor that you've thought through the business and that your coachable, you know, and you can work well with them.
So I like doing that kind of stuff. And, and, answer your question directly about forecaster, you can do that.
Yeah. So, and forecast is very easy to like clone scenarios to adjust scenarios and then to invite investors to just that scenario.
You know, which you can do quite easily and we're even working on a feature where you can then see if they do the scenario and where they viewed and how much time they spend in it just like you do on Docs and so we're building all that out too, which is need.
But yes, you can do that kind of sharing stuff really easily, or if you do use a spreadsheet, same deal, you know, send a copy of the model, you know, to different investors, you know, and so they have that model discreetly.
But, but I like to have this kind of one official financial model for and then I kind of branch off it, you know, discreetly with different investors and share that with them.
Like ad hoc. Does that make sense?
Yeah, that's perfect. Thank you.
Cool, thank you. Valerie, you gotta, got a question as well.
Yeah, yeah, so, you were mentioning like kind of withholding the model, just showing kind of the projections and then getting that email from them to further the conversation.
I was gonna ask like How do you that feels like a very like delicate dance to
Be doing with someone like they might get pissed off that like you don't have everything that they asked for in there.
So how do you kind of navigate that?
Yeah, I think that is an awesome question. And fundraising in my experience is a delicate dance. It's a dance of leverage.
It's a balance of power. And in my personal opinion, investors by default have a lot of power.
Because they have the money you need the money and there's more people that need the money than there is with people with the money so it's like you're already at a deficit there.
And so sometimes it can feel like we need to just do everything that the investor wants because they have the power and like we need to make their life easy as possible but I think in some cases in like very tactical and and certainly very polite and respectful ways.
You know, we need to make sure that our needs are met as well. You know, we're, we're not, you know, at charity asking for donations.
We're a business offering to sell a piece of something that can be extremely valuable. So I like to kind of come up with that mindset and I like to use little examples like this to kind of balance the power and says, and so in practice it looks like this.
If I don't include the model in the data rim. That's totally fair game. Like you're not gonna get no one's gonna be like what what are you doing?
You know, like I can view that negatively really but they might reach out and ask say hey I see your model is not your data and I'd really love to review that can you go and send it over to which you say the model is not in the data room and that's actually because I really would love to have a conversation with investors you specifically about our model and just really talk through the forecast and how we put it together and most importantly
how our business works and how how we scale this business, you know, before I share the model, you know, because I really think it's important that we get back into a room and have a good strategic conversation.
About this business. That's the way both of us are gonna understand if this is truly a good fit for both sides, so blah, blah, blah.
Like, you know, do you have these times? And then the investor, you know, either is gonna play ball with that, which in my experience most of them do if you catch it in that way.
Or they're gonna say, look, man, I get it, but I'm really busy and like I need you to send me the model.
Something might be that not be like that kinda dickish but it's something like that you know sometimes they are kind of kind of assholes like that.
And in those cases, you have to kind of make a judgment call. You know, if that's a partner at Sequoia, I'm gonna send the model over, because that person probably is way, busy and they have a lot more power than me and I would love to get a second meeting at this person.
I'm gonna play ball. Events like Joe Schmo investor I'm gonna say Look, I like, I really appreciate you being forthright about what your interests are and I recognize your very busy.
I'm busy too and we've got a lot of investors to negotiate with your end of the day.
I think it's worth both of our time to sit back in the room and to have a conversation about this business to understand if this is going to be a good investment for both sides.
You know, I mean no offense, but if you're not interested in having a conversation with me about the financial aspect of this business, I don't think that you're the right fit for us.
And that's what I do. But it's, it's a personal thing.
You have to decide for yourself how much you want to play that game, but I will say it my experience and I'm not naturally this kind of person, but like what I found in fundraising is like.
You do have to be a little bit more.
Contrarian, I guess, or whatever, then, then typically, bank from in my experience, it's like to kind of balance that leverage out.
You certainly don't want to be, you know, to kind of cavalier off putting or definitely not respect like disrespectful at all but it's okay to prioritize your own best interests and there's reasons why investors want to just consume your resources and then talk to you and that's because it gives them a lot of power.
They can pre think of like delts and concerns and all these things to pick at your business. And then they can rip you to shreds in the meeting and like you lose a lot of leverage in that.
So, you know, it's okay to kind of, prioritize your own interest as well.
In my opinion, you know, and just do that in a really respectful, polite way, but you have to decide yourself window, when to take that step, you know, some in some cases with some investors, you know, you may be willing to kind of follow their lead.
You know, because of their stature.
That makes complete sense. Thank you so much.
You got it. Alright, let me do a quick turn check here. And by the way too, I saw we had an hour after this. It's a talk.
I usually give it an hour too, so we'll have plenty of time. You know, with this one, this is basically all the content here and then I'm just gonna go take you guys through my example with forecaster.
So we'll launch into that. So, and I think you're really good to see kind of my style for the model locked here and just event it but 1st I'll go through the deck so So this is, this is the deck I used last year.
I've used a very similar. DEC for. All the capital raises we've had at forecaster in terms of story arc.
And this isn't really model related, but just, or here like my own personal belief on decks and on story is that like When you're raising, you have 2 main.
Points you have to prove, the 1st is proof of vision. The second is proof of execution.
My belief is if you can prove to investor that there's a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow and you can prove to an investor that you're the founder that's going to get there.
You know, you're likely to get a check. And so my, story, my deck is all oriented around proof of vision and prove of execution.
So yeah, you'll see in my deck. Pro of vision, you know, big problem, big market, you know, this archaic.
You know, you know, operating system for this major business function, so, You know, and then I'm like, we're gonna be the card of financial models, multi 1 billion dollar company, proof of vision.
Yeah, we've got this huge gold line of private company financial data that we're gonna anonymize and benchmark proof of vision.
You know, we're like these other companies that have taken Excel based business functions and put them online over the last few decades or the next iteration and that improve a vision.
We've got a tried true business model that scales low risk proof of execution, you know, we've got great growth.
We've got great retention. We've got great unit economics, proof of execution. We're, you know, we've taken a unique position on the market that's going to yield an outsized return.
We've got a strong, you know, advantage on, distribution through, through channel partnerships.
You know, we differentiate through human approach. These are all things that should try to prove that, you know, we're the pre, or the team that can get to the pod of gold, proof of execution.
But it's not until, you know, this is the end of my deck right here. It's like, 15 slides on my that.
You know, raising 4 million not to hire people, not to buy time, you know, raising 4 million to achieve an objective, raising 4 million to buy customers to buy revenue, to buy, and increased unit economics, right?
I'm, I'm raising 4 million to hit milestones. And right before I do that though, I'm just flashing the forecast.
So just a screenshot of a forecaster here. And I'm blashing the forecast.
And like I said before, when I get to this slide, I say, look. Yeah, I recognize from an early stage company.
I recognize there are a lot of unknowns, but for the type of founding team that believes in the financial fundamentals, we believe in setting goals.
We believe in making plans and we believe in holding ourselves accountable to those goals and we're thinking big.
I think there's no question there's a high ceiling for this business. I think there's no question that we're really onto something here and and look I think you know of all the businesses out there we really understand the financial mechanics of this business and yeah frankly if I've done my job here today I'm convincing you the merits of this business I would love to spend an hour with you sometime next week
just walking you through the financial model that supports this forecast and most importantly just having a really strategic conversation with you about how we acquire about how we monetize.
Scale and what our plans are for this business. I think that would give both of us a great understanding of, you know, if this is a real, if this is a good deal for both sides.
So I'd love to spend that time with you and we can circle back to that at the end of the meeting.
And then get the in, finish the bench, have the QA, watch the clock, you know, with 5 min left in the meeting.
I try to usually transition and say, Hey, so it looks like we had about 5 min left. Want to get you out of here in time.
You know, I thought this was a great meeting today. 1st of all, I thought it was good back and forth and you know, you can tell me, but you seem like, a good investor for us.
You seem interested and, I'd love to continue the conversation. You through the financial model. I, I think, I think talking about this business through the numbers, I think it's gonna really help you understand the core economics of the business.
I think it help us both understand, you know, if this is a good fit for both sides and I'd love to do that.
I've got some time early next week. Tuesday looks pretty open for me. How does that sound to you?
They just, I just, I'll just throw that out there. Try to really paint a picture, get a conversion right there.
That they latch onto that? Great, you schedule it, you do it. You know, if they give you something specific like, I really appreciate that, Stephen, that, you know, it sounds good, but what I'd really love to do actually is like, you know, get, more into the product, we do a product demo or something like, yep, got it.
Or meet co-founder. Yep, got it. Go to market. Deep, got it.
Whatever they latch onto, you're trying to schedule that meeting, whether it's a model or not.
You know, or if they give you something really vague, like, yeah, appreciate that, Stephen, but, you know, let me, how to love.
I'll get back to you. Yeah, then I try to still kinda push on that and say, yeah, totally.
Well, like, what do you think is the best next step? I know you said you're gonna huddle up, you know, when should I expect to hear back?
You know, cause I'm trying to get something that's time down, something that's specific, not trying to push right but I'm trying to get some of this time down specific so I can keep the pressure out.
If they still give me something vague and say well I don't know we're gonna have to huddle up Steve and then I'm like okay totally got you well really appreciate the time today and I'll follow up early next week but I don't hear from you, know something like that and then and then that's what you do you know because you can't over press but if possible you really want to
try to be specific with the next step. The more you keep people moving, the more you'll get the more you'll get, the quicker knows you'll get either way the better allocation of time, you know, to drive to drive the results in the rays.
So, That's my 2 cents on the deck. And kinda like how to use the model in it to set yourself up for a secondary meeting.
And I'll share this with you guys as well. That's interesting. And then on the model itself.
You know. So my model lives in 4 faster, obviously, you know, on me, if it didn't, but, just to say it again, like, you know, you don't have to use forecaster to do what I'm about to do.
If you use Excel, if you use, you can do the same stuff. It just obviously looks different.
You know, but, but here's my financial model and forecaster, you know, we got a bunch of scenarios like, but if we don't grow, what if we slow growth or, you know, what are our goals and that kind of stuff? We've got all the assumptions that drive the model.
And then ultimately we've got the 3 statement financial model, you know, the output of that financial model as well.
You look at a month, quarterly annually. So that's kind of the lay of the land here.
And so when you're presenting your financial model to investors. One of the most important things in my opinion to keep in mind is what is the purpose of this meeting, right?
You know, you know, what are we ultimately trying to do with this meeting and the obvious one to me is we're trying to close them as an investor you know we're trying to you know we're trying to get their investment that's the ultimate purpose And so what's keeping them from investing?
And so I was, I, this is how I frame a second meeting. Like at the time that you're walking them through your financial model, there's no question that they're interested in the business.
They wouldn't be here if they weren't. Like you've had some initial meeting, they're clearly interested.
They're here in a second meeting. So it's not about building interest. It's about alleviating concerns.
They're interested, but they have concerns. That's their head space because if they're interested in they had no concerns, they would have already committed to their own.
But they're interested, but they have concerns. They have doubts. They see risk. Right?
And so our goal in this meeting is to expose the concern, expose the risk, expose the doubt, and then quell it, relinquish it, alleviate it, right?
It's like get it off the board. And so we have to focus our time on where are those doubts? Where is that risk?
Where are those concerns? I would say 97 times out of a hundred they're on the customer position and revenue side of the house like most investors are not concerned with your general on admin expenses.
They might be somewhat, you know, they might have questions about your hiring plan, but they're largely concerned with how are your acquiring customers?
How are you monetizing those customers? What is your economics? That kind of stuff. What is they're concerned with growth?
So I say that all to say that when you get to your financial model walk through and you're having the conversation about the model, that's where you want to focus your time.
Like focus your time on how do you acquire on how do you monetize on the customer acquisition and revenue stream, you have sections of your model.
And I'll do that in just a minute, but that's the first, st that's your 1st job is like.
Tell them how you acquire, tell them how you monetize. And then most importantly, open up a dialogue about that.
You know, don't just lecture about how this stuff works. Give them a high level overview like you'll see me do in just a minute.
And then pause and basically say, hey, what are your questions? What concerns do you have? What risks do you see in this business?
Because you know that they have them. So there's no, since even saying, do you have any questions or do you have concerns?
It's just what questions do you got? What concerns do you have? Or risky, see?
Let's talk about it. So you can do that. Once you go through customer acquisition, once you go through revenue, that's the Yeah, majority of the meeting.
You know, then I think there's a very natural next step where you can say, hey, you know, you know, if we're gonna hit these exciting projects, if we're gonna get to 340,000 in MRR by the end of the year, we need resources like we need people here in the pires that we're going to make over the next 12 to 18 months in order to
facilitate that revenue. It's all about the milestones. So. It's user phones, basically.
Here are the people we're gonna hire to hit the milestones. You're at the sales and marketing and other kind of material expenses that we're going to incur.
In order to hit the milestones. So it's all about the milestones. You keep certain things back to that, but you cover the expenses just to show investors that you've thought through it.
And then the final piece of the meeting when you're making the turn towards. Towards the end of the meeting, you want to go to the you want to basically close the loop.
You want to close the loop to the forecast that you showed them in in the deck, right? So you're closing the loop towards the forecasts that you showed them in the deck, right?
So you're closing the loop towards the forecast ultimate that you presented to the investor in the deck right so it's come full circle.
And this is the best place to usually to make a direct ask. So you're gonna turn towards this near the end of the meeting.
And what I like to do is just come to this and say, look like end of the day, you know.
We're raising this round this 2 million dollar seed round to hit these projections. We're raising this 2 million dollar round to build a really material business here.
We have our sites on a very large business here and that's why I'm excited about having this conversation like I think frankly from the conversation today that you'd make a great investor.
I thought you asked some really good questions. I think you'd provide a lot more value than just a check.
And if I could be so candidate, I think we'd make a great addition to the portfolio.
So, yeah, like we talked a little bit in our 1st meeting, we've got about 500,000 committed to this round already, which is great.
We're looking for somebody to come in and lead their round with a million dollar check. I mean, frankly, I'd love that I'd love for that to be you.
I think you guys would make a great investor for this business. So I'd love to see you put a million in, you know, but, but should be straight, you know, where yet with respect to making an investment in this business and what other information do you need from me in order to make that decision.
And then just pause and just. Let the silence sit and see what they have to say. That's my biggest piece of advice on that because like I did a really bad job of that early in my career of like making that direct ask because it's not putting somebody on the spot.
It's just It's just being upfront. It's just saying, look, I'm super confident in this business.
We've got a great business. I want to get back to business. Like, let's get a deal down here.
I'd love to see you put a million in. What do you think? You know, and giving them an opportunity to respond.
Because you really get a sense of where someone's heads at in that response. If they get if they they could say anything from you're right, let's do it, which they hardly ever say.
But like, they could say anything from like, Done, you know, which if it's an angel they do like a like I'll say the same thing, you're walking in, go through the ball and say, Hey, love to see you put 50 K in this round.
Can I get on your commitment? Well love to see you put 100 K in this ramp and I count on your commitment and just like come it says soft commitments are what you're going for if it's not a lead if it is a lead you said like I'd love I'd love to set the terms with you. I'm pretty forthright about that.
Some people say don't ask somebody to leave. I'm not in that camp. I like if I know somebody could lead around I'm like I'd love to see you leave this round.
Like because I wanna ask for the business. So. I'm pretty direct about that these days it's worked well for me.
And you and I think you can read a lot from the response because some people with if someone's really vague in their response like you know appreciate that Stephen we're gonna need some time.
They're less interested. If they're more specific in their response, then they're more interested.
They'll say something like, Hey, I appreciate the app. I'm not ready to make a commitment today, but what I'd like to see is XY, and Z or like appreciate that like we're gonna need to make this as a consensus.
You know, let me get it with my partners on Monday. Let me have a discussion about it. We'll get back to you on Tuesday morning with next steps.
Like the more specific they give you in a response, the more interested they are, the more vague, you know, the less interested they are and say you can get a really good sense of where they are and then you can you can kind of push with the folks that are most interested.
So. That's my high level art. Yeah, different.
Sorry, this is not related to forecaster. For fundraising. Managing your investor pipeline.
Do you have a specific tool that you like using? In order to manage your investor CRM.
I do. It's just Google sheets. And I actually templated this.
A lot of founders use this, these days. I have this kind of like freakish, Google sheet.
I'll show you really big. But like
Yeah, it's basically got a bunch of sections like close commitments. It's basically like a CRM, right?
It's like a pipeline of moving people up. But I have, you know, I'll have like their type of investor, the city, the name, the firm, you know, whether they lead if I have an intro, their priority. So I
Wave my investors, you know, and try to focus on friendly.
And then people that would fill all the round. Put in the investment range, the last action, and then a number of other things like what stage or GAO they focus on, how much dry pattern they have, that kind of stuff.
So I just use a spreadsheet, you know, and because I think it's really .
And I just had a few people through that spreadsheet and I mean by is interested in kind of getting a copy of this, I is interested in kinda getting a copy of this branch.
You like I said, I have templatized this so you're welcome to. But I've also seen, I've, I've seen people use Hubspot really well.
I've seen people use, you know, the founder suite. I think it is really, really well.
So, you know, I think other tools can work, really well too, but I'm definitely big team like have an organized pipeline and run it like a sales process.
I think that's definitely the right idea.
Yeah.
Okay, cool. Yeah, I can tell you're like a classic sales, like sales tech salesperson, but it's great.
I'll reach out for a template. Thank you.
Go, go. Yeah, and if I like a financey sales guy, which is another reason why I think I do well in fundraising because it's kind of a financial sales process.
So yeah, so, let me do like a little bit of role play here because I think this will really help.
You guys kind of picture the style that I'm advocating for when you walk through the model in terms of the high level strategic overview and not.
Digging into the model. So, let me, I'm just going to go through my revenue section here.
So like, imagine, yeah, you guys are, you guys are an illustrious, you know, investor group.
And we've had a great 1st meeting and I was able to convince you guys to take a second meeting here and walk through the model, you know, I would do something like this.
I'd say, hey look, 1st of all, thanks so much for taking the time to take this meeting.
Like I recognize, you know, you're an investor that has a lot of companies that you can meet with and look I've got a company to run but I think the 1st meeting was great.
I think there's real potential here for a deal and I'm excited to walk through the financial aspect of this business.
You know, and I'm excited to walk through the financial aspect of this business. You know, I think we've got a great business.
I think it's really thought through it. And I just wanna have a deeper conversation with you to see if this is really gonna be a good fit for both sides.
So I appreciate this being here. And what I really wanted to focus the time on today is it's just how we acquire and how we monetize it.
I think both both you and I would agree. Yeah, if we can acquire customers really well and monetize them really well.
We're likely to succeed as a business and you're likely to get a really strong return on your investment.
And I just want you to know like we freak about that stuff over here. All we focus on is like how we acquire, how we monetize, how we grow.
And that's what I want to walk you through first.st you know and if I'm being frank like I'm sure you have concerns about this business I'm sure you see risk within this business and I'm and it's probably on that side of the house so I'd love to understand what those.
Concerns are I'd love to understand the risks that you see, you know, so that I so that I can build a better business and so we can have a real conversation.
So, you know, 1st let me just walk you through. Our customer acquisition. Yeah, we we can't monetize any customers we don't acquire and we've thought a lot about customer acquisition.
We've done it really really well. So we've been around a business business for years. You know, we use this model every single month.
So all this, all this data here in gray, this is all our real numbers and we could go back as far to the past as you might like, but you know, the vast majority of our customers come from partnerships.
We acquire kind of in the mid thirties right now in terms of customers per month, which is which is a good number for us.
You know, we're trying to get up to 48 customers a month by the end of the year.
And then scale that up to 67 customers by the end of next year. So, you know, not ludicrous projections here.
I think very level-headed, reasonable projections here. I feel really confident that we can hit those numbers.
So about 50 by the end of this year, about 70 by the end of next year, that's what's gonna get it done for us.
Yeah, that translates to good solid to actually over your revenue growth. You know, and if I zoom out a little bit.
You know, big picture like. Like the number one channel that we have and what's worked so well for us as a business is partnerships like at the end of the day what we do is we exchange expertise on financial models for natural exposure to companies who might be interested in our product and our services.
We get in and teach, we get in an educate, it's all in kind and it generates a lot of leads and a lot of business for us.
It's something we've done really well, it's something we emulated off of Hubspot and Carta, you know, that's our that's our breadwinning channel and I think as you all know, distribution falls the power law.
That's the channel that we're doubling, tripling down on a lot of the investment in this round is going into that channel.
You know, but secondarily, you know, we do see a lot of opportunity and organic. There's a lot of opportunity for content, for SEO, social, you know, we do a really good job of just providing good domain expertise probably to the market.
That's generated a lot of customers as well and You know, I mean, you can, you can, tell like we don't need to get the whole market here to build a big business.
Like this is a significant business. You know, we're only acquiring about 5,000 companies. That's a pretty small slice of the grander, you know, private company.
I think we've got a great handle on customer acquisition. I think we've really thought through this stuff and we've got a great plan, but.
Yeah, that's just me, like what I'd ultimately love to hear is like, what questions do you have about how we acquire customers or customers in general?
You know, and like I said before, I'm sure you have concerns. So one concerns you most about customer acquisition or Just what risks do you see?
Let's talk about that, you know, before we jump over to revenue. That's the kind of style I advocate for and I wanna pluck out a few threads out of that, you know, before throwing it around.
The 1st threat is like, I didn't really get into the model at all. I'm not telling you about the conversion rates, the growth rates, the any assumptions that I may gain.
I'm not really telling you about hardly any of the numbers. Yeah, I, I thank you for your time, which I think is just.
Good thing to do. I told you that I use this model every month. I update it with real data.
If you do that, you should say that investors love to hear that. They love to know that like you're actually taking this stuff seriously.
And then I, and then I told you where I'm at right now, where I'm going over the time horizon of this investment, next 12 to 24 months, what my goals and milestones are, what it means in terms of revenue.
So just high level goals and milestone stuff. And then a zoom out big picture strategy stuff, right zoom out big picture.
What's my bread winning channel? Why do I think it's gonna work? You know, a quick expression of confidence.
And then the most important thing I did was shut up and put it back to the investors like I think I talked for 3 or 4 min there and then put it back to the investor.
That's what you wanna do. It's like. And you should practice it just like you practice a pitch.
It's like 3 to 5 min max for each section for customer acquisition for revenue, etc, and then put it back to the investor and try to draw those questions, draw those concerns.
And then you're saying, great question, love that question. Here's my answer. Oh, I think that's a super valid concern. But I'll tell you what.
I mean, from my vantage point in the captain's chair, I'm really not worried about that and here's why.
Like you want to get into that kind of conversation. The more you do that, the more confidence you'll inspire and the greater chances that you that you get an investment.
Yeah Vincent.
Yeah, this session has been honestly amazing because we are also in kinda like the V to be space and I've also thought about channel partnerships is like the right way to like build trust because we're in fintech so it's a long sales cycle.
Is like the right way to like build trust because we're in. So it's a long sales cycle anyways.
You've actually ever seen any data or from your companies or other companies around the value of a sales partner and how you quantify that.
Like me and my co-founders kind of often go back and forth. But it's like, should we be doing direct sales, individual businesses, or are these channel partnerships like truly way more valuable?
I'm curious if you have any data backup this approach.
Yeah, it's a great question. And so I don't have any kind of hard date in terms of like the value of a sales partner or something like that but I will say you know from my business like I mean these are all my real numbers is my actual real financial model so I can say like you can see just how big of a deal it's been for us.
I mean partnerships is by far our biggest channel so you know it's definitely it's definitely a viable option for BP companies for any company I think partnerships can be as long as you think really hard about the value exchange like if you're either paying like usually in partnerships in my experience once size providing distribution the other side is providing some sort of value that could be money or in my case it's education, you
know, and so you know what is the value that you're providing to these partners? How are you incentivizing them to send you distribution?
If you can nail that if you can really become a core piece of their, engine, then you can win with partnerships and something I'd like to say more broadly to the group.
Is that, you know, it's not lost on me that in my overview right there in my story these days I can lean on the fact that like I've been around for 4 years and I have a historical data that proves this works.
I just have to prove I can scale it. You may be at a much earlier stage in your business where maybe your pre market, maybe your pre-revenue, you know, I was too, you know, at a certain point and I was still pitching this this same the same way and when you're early on and you don't have data to back up your story, what you really have to fall back on is just
like, it's just like building a strategic argument like Bill you have to build an argument and one of the most effective ways that I found to build the argument for my business was leading on.
Contemporary companies that have succeeded in tangential markets, right? Like, you know, doing this, right?
So what I did was like early on in forecaster, I was like, hey, like I kinda like wanna be Hubspot, but for financial models, I kind of want to be CARDA, but for financial models.
So let me talk to Hubspot. Let me talk to Carter. Let me talk to people in their growth departments.
Let me like put my hat in hand and say, hey, I'm building a company that's kind of like you but it's not competitive to you in any way.
I'd love to understand what's been your bread winning channel. And like I got a bunch of ideas from those companies where like they're flattered because it's mentorship.
I'm not competitive to them. It's not a threat. And they just get on that call and they're like, hey, like channel partnerships crushed for us.
That's what that's what the VP of Growth, TAL, MATTA, told me about Cardi.
You lead card is growth from point 13.18. You know, I called email this guy and he got back to me and we had a 1 h call.
It was awesome. You know, Hubspot was a similar deal. They were like inbound marketing, education.
We just taught people how to do inbound marketing and they paid us to do it for and like I just combined those 2 things that's been my number one channel since day one and that worked for me but you know it was really effective in my early days of fundraising.
I was saying, Hey, partnerships is going to be our breadwinning channel. How do I know that I talked to Hubspot? I talked to Carter.
That's what works for them. They sell the same customer segment. It's a very corollary business.
I have a high degree of certainty that this is going to work for us too. And oh, by the way, we're the type of company that makes agile decisions.
We're the type of company that tracks data religiously as we as we execute on this plan, we will iterate it as need be.
That's the kind of stuff that investors love to hear. So if you are really early and you don't have data, just really think critically about how you're building your argument to defend, you know, your plan.
Because that is what's going to be evaluated essentially. It's a lot less about the numbers.
It's a lot more about the strategy like I'm I'm not defending that I'm going to do 841 customers and 2027 I'm defending that I can scale partnerships broadly you know and it's like and that's the level I want to stay as soon as I get into defending.
The meeting has gotten away from me. Like I need to be defending broad strategy, broad strokes. And so that's kind of you wanna you wanna keep the level high kind of like a politician like if a politician gets asked a really specific question they don't give a really specific answer they give a really broad answer and that's because it's really effective in like telling a story and inventing people to their
favor. And there's something we can learn that's frustrating, but it's also effective.
Like, and so that's kind of where where you have to do that dance of like try to stay as high level out of the weeds as possible.
If you get pulled into the weeds, you have to engage, but then pull yourself back up as soon as you can, you know, and you have to get good at like kind of you know, playing that, playing that game, that makes any sense.
But yeah, hope that's helpful, Brian, what you get.
Hi, Stephen. Firstly, I want to withdraw all my reservation that I had on email.
I've been convinced. I've been one over. That's all I had to say.
Awesome, man.
But, very quick, but very quickly. I just have a very almost off current curiosity.
But I'm gonna just ripple off what LinkedIn was saying. Do you guys have visibility on your customers data, financial models?
And if yes, what are some of the most interesting insights that you've? Pick up, you know, that you see from the back end.
Especially around the, other financial model process. Especially I would actually even add a coffee at like for companies that are not familiar with textures where we have TRI, who gets us introductions, to international model, whether some of the common mistakes they make or some of the very common best practices.
But they turn to that actually work. What are some of the interesting insights that you
Yeah, it's a it's a great question. So the answer is like technically we do have access to the data, but we're not actually doing anything with it.
To set up a data warehouse where and we're doing and we're going like through our SOCK 2 compliance process during like you have everything kind of locked down in a warehouse, anonymized and encrypted.
And then we're gonna basically like be you trying to use that to like aggregate and surface like completely anonymous like peer-to-peer benchmarks for companies but we haven't done anything there yet.
So I can't really give you any kind of insights more like at that level. I can though speak at length about, you know, financial models generally common mistakes that are made and then what the best models look like and and just to hit on a couple of things there the number one most common mistake I see in financial models especially for early stage companies is over engineering.
I mean, the number one mistake is not building one to be honest, but like if you build one, and then, then everyone's stake is over engineering them all is like just going to do you trying to capture too much like early on in the business you really want a simple financial model that you can operationalize and use monthly.
You want a simple financial model that you can speak to with investors, but but going much deeper than that, false precision.
So when you build your model, I keep it relatively simple out of the gate, really anchored around the story you're trying to tell or keep it directional and then as you build the business as you stabilize the business you're going deeper.
I call this MVP modeling like if you're early in the business just like you build your product as an MVP and then build it out over time.
Do the same thing with your model. You know, build that out over time. And then the second most common mistake I see in modeling is not being specific enough and it comes to the revenue side of the business.
There's a lot of models that'll be really specific on expenses and then revenue just like magically generates and grows.
And that's a big mistake because that's where most of the risk is in the business. That's where most investor questions are.
And so when you're when you're building the business, you need to have specific channels for customer acquisition, you know, specific revenue streams and stuff like that.
So that you can really like tweak the tweak the model and understand your business on that side you should go deeper on revenue than you should on expenses and when you're backing the business up or the model up with investors, that's where their questions are gonna lie.
And so, you know, they have questions about customer acquisition and your customer acquisition and your customer acquisition doesn't have any channels and it's just, you know, if they have questions about customer acquisition and your customer acquisition doesn't have any channels in it, it's just we start with 10 customers and it grows at 10% a month and that's how it is, you know, then it indicates to investors that you
probably haven't thought about how that you're acquiring customers, which adds to the risk profile.
So, Yeah, I don't know that's helpful, but, but that's, what I would, that's what I'd say.
Cool, awesome. Great question. Okay, so I know we're a little bit over, the, you know, the top of the hour here.
So really you're just rinse and repeating this over and over again. So you have that kind of short overview like I did on customer acquisition.
You're getting into question and answer, you know, and what I find is when you do this well too, it's like.
A lot of the questions you get aren't even about the model like on customer acquisition. I'd get the question of like how do your partnerships work?
Do you pay for this or who are your who's your what's your ideal customer profile stuff like that, which like is like model adjacent, right?
But it's about the business, not the model, which is what you want. I want the question like who's your ICP?
I want the question like how do your partnerships work? Not the question of like what's the month of a month growth rate in your partnerships or something like that?
I want those more strategic, kind of questions. So that's what you want to orient for and then when you do get through customer acquisition you just transition you say great so like let's talk a little bit about how we monetize these customers as a reminder for a SAS services business so we believe in the human approach we don't shy away from the human approach every single one of our customers gets an analyst and
that analyst works with them hand in hand to build maintain and update the model report on it to investors.
We even go so far as to do CFO services. You know, we offer that to about 30 of our 600 customers today.
You know, and it's a pretty material piece of our revenue engine right now. I mean, it's a valid 4th of our revenue, blah, blah, blah.
I'll talk through that. But then I might zoom out and talk to, you know, but long term, this is a SAS business.
This is a product company. You know, you can see it's only about 20% of our revenue in the long run.
I know by the way, you know, our gross margin is in the is in the low 70.
So yeah, this is a this is a really strong business. So I'm talking about, you know, how the business makes money.
I'm doubling down on a strategic element of the company, like our human approach. I'm talking about the evolution of the business.
But then I would talk about, you know, goals and milestones too. I'd say look like over the past couple of years we've been doubling and revenue or a little bit over 200,000 today you know we're gonna we're looking to get to 3 40 by the end of this year you know up until you know 5 35 by the end of next year and this sets us up well for 1st for scale I
think it sends this up really well for a series a sometime next year blah blah blah yeah so you're just talking about similar Okay.
Like key story points, key strategic elements, how you make money, goals and milestones, but you're not getting deep into the weeds.
And then you're, and then you, what, deal, bring it back to them, ask them what concerns or questions they have.
It could be about unit economics. It could be about retention or price. It could be about your product and service and how it works in general.
You know, you're engaging in those questions. And then you're and then you're keeping it moving you're watching the clock.
And like once you really exhaust these 2 sections, that's when you say, Hey, like, well, you know, if we're gonna, if we're gonna basically purchase the growth, you see in the model, here are the skill gaps that we need to hire.
Here are the people we need to hire. In order to facilitate that revenue growth, we've really thought through the cost of scale.
You know, here are the other material expenses that will occur as we scale the business, blah, blah, blah.
So like. There's a couple, you know, a couple high levels on this. Usually there's not a ton of questions in my experience on the on the expense side more on the people than expenses, but you definitely want to hit on your major costs.
And then finally. And really maybe like probably not most importantly most important by talking about the revenue but but a close second to it is just getting yourself in the habit of making that direct ask of zooming out and say, look, like, you know, I've enjoyed this meeting.
I think you make a great investor for us and look, frankly, I'd love to get back to building this business.
You know, I'd love to get back to building this business for raising a 1.5 million dollar seed.
I'd love to see you guys come in do a center fiftyk check and leave this round. I think we could find pretty fair and reasonable terms and you know, let's make it happen.
So that should be straight, you know, where you at your investment decision making process and like, what do we got to do to get a deal down here?
And just see what they say, you know, see what they say. And if, if they say yes, jump at that, they say no, that's cool.
You know, if they say something squishy in between. Yeah, maybe push a little bit, try to get some specificity, but if, if you can get it great, you know, time down specific next step, keep on moving if you can.
Yeah, then frankly they're probably not that interested, but you're still gonna follow up progressively because you're not gonna you're not gonna assume that but you say, okay, cool, like, well, I'll fall within a few days if I don't hear back and blah, blah, blah.
So. Yeah, I don't like I wanna belabor some of these points, you know, so, let me, pause here, see if there's any other kind of questions over here looking at the model.
And then otherwise, it's pretty much the end. So I'll just kind of wrap things up and then we can get to.
Did any other final final final questions? And, let you guys back out on your way and prepping for, so.
Any, other questions here on the kind of the model walkthrough while we're sitting here?
Looking at looking at my model and that kind of stuff.
Cool.
Yeah.
Sure.
Can we go through the assumptions? So like when you have specific things like, like the scenario where someone's like, oh, I think your conversions are too high.
Where do this input, like, what does that input look like? Is that in the
Yeah, yeah, that's actually here. So it's in the assumption. So yeah, like if I got the question of like, Hey, well, like the onion here for me Stephen like I'd love to understand like what's your conversion look like and that kind of thing.
So I would kind of jump in and I'd say yeah you know like I mean that looks like a tech stars they're our biggest partner.
Okay.
I mean, to be quite honest, they're our biggest partner. You know, it's like, so it's like, so, you know, right now, yeah, we work with about 9, 9 programs at a time.
That would be Vincent, Brian, and probably me. Yeah.
We're looking to scale that up to 12 over time. You know, we're, we get about 3, 3 leads per program right now and, And about half of those end up getting on with our salespeople and we close about 2 thirds of those as new customers.
So and if someone was like, you know, well, that, in my case, I can say, well, it's our actual conversion rate.
But if I did want to adjust it, I'd say, well, yeah, let's see what it looks like at 40%.
A lower any further than that it will it will be any further than that but we can take a look at that and see what that does right inside kind of make that adjustment.
So in terms of forecaster, this is kinda how it looks right now. There's these drawers that things live in and then just one super quick thing is one thing I think is kind of neat about forecaster is we take out of a logic based approach so like The way you set assumptions is like you have different ways that things could change like it could be one time change, it could grow straight line, it
could grow as like a percentage or it could like, and you're putting in like logically what's going on.
Hmm.
You're like from September until this change it to that, you know, rather than having to like write out the formula and then the platform basically just converts that logic into into math.
I love that.
So that's gonna how forecaster works. Yeah, well thank you. No, yeah, you got a question.
Hi, thank you for the great talk. Yeah, it's really yeah, this can be really, really dumb question.
So. You, wait, when you speak, the the strategy about having the conversation with investors, it sounds really, really clear and easy to do that.
But actually, when I face customers or investors, it's really, really difficult for me to follow the strategy.
So, yeah, that the dumb question, do you have any, tips that how I can practice this kind of, conversations.
Yes, okay, that is so 1st of all, not a dumb question at all that is a very smart question because that is my experience as well.
It's like it's 1 thing in the in the classroom here to talk about educated on this and yeah but then it's another thing entirely when you get out in the field having investor meetings and and things can get off the wheels very quickly you can get bogged down in details that you can get knocked off track and like it's a skill to like it's a skill to run a meeting and to control a
meeting, which is a very valuable skill in fundraising. So how can we practice that skill? Number one thing we can do is like is I mean, it's just literally practices or repetition thing.
And what I like to do is like. Before you get to the starting gate with around and so I do this with my pitch and I do this with my model walkthrough.
I do a couple of things. One is I take my own time on the front end to outline and to kind of and to make a plan for like when I'm sitting down with the deck.
What are the headline points that I want to make? So I outline that. I maybe like practice it a few times.
I'll shoot a loom video of me like going through that, you know, and then I'll share that with an investor like, current investors like friendlies or people in tech stars, that kind of stuff.
I'll share it around on my network. To link to polish that and to kind of battle test my approach, you know, like so my by perfect approach basically.
And that's the 1st part about it is like the more you sharpen that approach and the more you get comfortable hitting those points, the more you there becomes second nature, the easier you'll be like whipping yourself back to that, you know, in, in, in, in real time.
So practicing it, sharing it, getting feedback, polishing it before you actually get the starting gate is great.
And then like so what I do in front of before my rounds is if you have current investors or if you don't you know your in tech stars you have access to people literally try to practice like I did this before my last round is I sat down with 10 different, literally try to practice like I did this before my last round is I sat down with 10 different of my current investors and I pitched them on the business like my I gave
them I like I walked into my deck and hit on my pitch and then I also walk them through my model and I hit on and I hit on that and I and it's not perfect but you kinda you ask me like act like you're an investor and like and have that engagement.
And so you get a little bit of practice there and you get a little feel for it. There and kind of like how things land.
But if I'm really being honest, like even that is just different than when you're actually in the field actually pitching it and like the only way you really get better at it is like you just got to have a lot of investor meetings like.
The more meetings you have, the better you'll get at like controlling it and under that likes that kind of noticing when it gets knocked off track and like finding a way to push it back so I'd say just like you know practice as much as you can you know before you do it go out there and raise the round just to sharpen the axe but really you gotta get out there and start doing it and you kinda you
know learn over time from there. One of the one tip I do have though in terms of bringing it back is like.
If someone asks you a question that takes in a direction that's off track. You want to finish your answer with bringing it back on track.
Like you don't want to finish the answer and then pause. You want to finish your answer by looping back.
You know which is not always easy to do and it's very it's not always obvious you know how to do I'm not even thinking like a good example but You know, like one example could be this, like if, someone like, let's say it's really early on and the business like your pre market and the investors trying to like camera you on, like, you know, like you don't even know
you haven't sold a customer. They're like, you know, what's your tech?
What's your calculation for KAC and that kind of stuff? And, and like you're going down this kind of rabbit hole, you know, you may say you may like say, well, look, I mean, 1st of all, you know, we're really early on and like, and so if I'm being really honest with you, I think, you know, this is well, it's like we, we
don't know our but here's what I think it is and, and here's, and here's why.
And so you're answering that and you're like, but what I honestly think is, even more important than Kak is like, who is our customer and why would they buy our product?
And like we really sell to these customers, they love our product for these reasons. Maybe kind of end on that if that's a good point that you want to anchor on.
And so, I don't, it's 1 of those things that like, I feel like you really just have to get out there and, and, and get reps on, you know, to, build.
Yeah.
That's great. That's really nice. Thank you for the great tips and the device.
Of course, sir.
In sales, we call it batting cages. Like just get out in the batting cages and just take some hits and practice with each other.
Yeah.
So you could like set up batting cages with your peers and with the founders or like in this case with other investors but yeah I love that I love your sales approach it's like so methodical.
Yeah, I'm definitely like, like I say, I'm very financing sales.
Guess I'm very analytical and kind of methodical and in my approach, but yeah, it's a really great question, SNAN.
And, and Tonya, you got, you got a question?
Yeah, yeah, thank you, Stephen. Great, great workshop. So, I wanted to go back to what Jala was asking about conversion and, you know, one of the initial slides you show that you advise for 200 plus company.
So I was wondering if you came up if you if you can tell us some ballpark number conversion for B to C that you see a lot that can be used in a financial model.
And besides the usual research you do online, like if you see like conversion numbers that are make sense to investor, it can make sense, especially to us for our forecast.
Yeah, it's a great question. And I'll be honest, I won't have a good answer for you because there is so much variability and it, in my opinion, it hinges mostly on is.
Essentially like the price of your of your product and the subset of the consumer market. You know, if you're really high price kind of premium product.
You might get a much lower conversion if you're a really low price, more kind of commodity style, you know, kinda everyday product.
You're gonna get a higher conversion rate. You know, I think it would be thinking about it just straight off the top of like website traffic.
It's definitely in the single digits, you know, if not some in some cases maybe even lower than a percent.
But we're, but that's a big range, you know, 0 to 9%.
And it's not even completely contained in that range. What I will say as an answer to that question, and what I would advise you to do, it when you're thinking about your assumptions is really similar to my story on partnerships finding those corollary contemporary companies that look like you but aren't competitive really try to find companies like that.
I mean, it's 1 of the other benefits of tech stars. At this point, TEXTARS has like, 10 different companies that are close enough to any of our businesses to be a resource on that.
Like consumer businesses that sell a product in a similar price range, you know, to a similar segment, things like that.
You really want to try to find those companies and see what they were able to get because it's so contextual like it really depends on the customer and the product.
So I think that that's what I would encourage if you're to try to gut check assumptions is that.
And then just generally speaking as well. Even that, you know, it'll, that'll give you, that'll get you as far as you can go before you actually get data from the market.
But the ultimately the market. Really wound up telling you what the conversion rate are so like in in what I like to do is like if I'm gearing up for around and preparing a model, I try to have conversations with businesses that are somewhat similar to me get a general sense.
I then pick a number, you know, and run with it one that puts level headed revenue projections in front of the investor.
And then if I, if I, if an investor pokes that and to say, you know, like.
What do you have to say to defend that conversion rate basically you know what I what I say is like well I talk to some other companies similar to us they've seen similar rates.
You know, what I, what I say is like, well, I talk to some other companies similar to us.
They've, they've, they've seen similar rates. Frankly, it seems like a really reasonable conversion rate to me, given my vantage point in this business, but you know the most important thing I'd like to say in response to that is like, you know, we're the type of company that religiously tracks metrics and as we penetrate into the market as we stand this company
up you know we'll see what our conversion rate is and we'll iterate on that you know but this I think is a reasonable assumption at this time.
You know, and this, and if they say it's not reasonable, then you can kinda ask them for why that is.
And then you can decide, you know, sometimes And the model, it's also good to do like sensitivity analysis because If you talk with an investor about a metric that you know, even if you cut it in half, you're still a great business.
You can be a lot more willing to change that metric. You know, like you say, hey, look, if you think the conversion, you'll be half sure.
I'll make it have for still a good business versus if you know the metric, if it gives you cut in half, it really makes your model look bad, then that's a metric you might wanna put a little bit more defense on and be a little bit more stiff on.
So I hope that's helpful. That's a great answer to your question, but it's a it's a tough one, you know, and that's, that's.
Yeah. Thank you.
You got it. I know we're low on time here, so, I'm gonna close out.
By just saying, like I said, not a pitch, but if you are in city digit disk down.
So, tech companies get 25% off forecaster for a year and, yeah, it's an online financial model.
It comes with an analyst. It's really kind of a whole service on the finance side of the house.
So if you're interested in checking forecaster out and using it, like I said, I think you'll find a lot of value out of it.
I think it'll be really helpful for you, but, for money and it does come into cost, all that kind of stuff.
So, so versus yours on that. I just wanted to let you guys know that you do get a nice discount, on forecast if you're interested.
And then that's it. You know, that's really, all I got, you know, and we do have a 11 more minutes.
If you guys wanna spend it, you have questions, which you've already asked a bunch of phenomenal ones, or we can, or you can cut it off here and, yeah, let you guys get back to your, day.
So. Any final questions? Yeah.
Stephen, we have a question. Nicholas asking, 25% off what total price.
Yeah, great. Yeah, great question. Yeah. So we, we start at 500 bucks a month and go up from there.
So I will be the 1st to say we are not the cheapest solution for your financial model. It does come at at a not a cheap price.
And the main reason for that is we're really kind of a sass plus human company. So every everybody gets an analyst, that analyst isn't just like an onboarding partner for you.
Actually like assigned your account long term and they meet with you monthly, quarterly, update the model, report on the model, or kinda like a fractional fractional team member.
So almost like you'd outsource like a bookkeeper, something like that. So 500 bucks a month, it goes up from there, then you get 25% off that.
So I think it's 3 75 a month is, is what the, what the price is for a.
Any other questions?
Okay.
You guys have integrations to accounting software to be able to pull in actuals.
We do, yeah. So we integrate with Quickbo, we integrate with 0 and we also do, CSV import.
So we can import any kind of bulk data from any source and then we integrate with those 2, those 2 accounting platforms.
Hustle on your roadmap.
Buzzle, yes. Yeah, I do. I like puzzle a lot. They've done, they've done really well for themselves.
Puzzles definitely on, on the roadmap. As is like kind of some of the upstream ones like Netsuite wave is also there.
So those we do wanna integrate with and yeah, right now, basically, just have to like download it into Excel and then.
And then import it.
So.
I actually have one last question about. The the actuals. So like one or the monthly forecast, like once it already happens, are the actual manual inputs like someone is actually inputting it like us or your analyst or whatever.
Or is it like connected to our quick books?
It's connected to the great book, so, that's 1 of the things I think is nice about these malls like, so, you know, it's like on, so it's all mapped in there.
So like actuals, you can just kind of click on and then you see, you know, forecast to actual basically, as long as you can click on a variance and see like we've been slightly underperforming.
Again, setting it's our forecast this year. So, do you get actual and forecast side by side and that's for any kind of accounting data or bulk of CSV import data.
You can, however, like go in here. And just like, inner data as well so we can like get in here and like if we wanted to get in here like card code over that's what these blue cells are you know get hard good like you would in Excel or something like that. So you can do either.
But typically these days it's like either the account and integration or CSV import, you know, to get most of the data in there.
Nancy, you got a question?
Cool.
Yeah, I'm curious. Do you guys work with a lot of fintech companies? Cause like this is especially useful for like more complex business models, right?
It's, yeah, I'd say it's probably equally as useful for any kind of business model.
It's just better really just about like kind of a more professional scalable, you know, visual kind of understanding of the business, but, I'd say we work with all, all sorts.
I mean, we got 600 plus customers now and there's band, I mean, a lot of SAYS, lot of ECOM, lot of CPG, lot of marketplace transactional, certainly a good, chunk of integ, and, and we've got medical cannabis companies.
I've got like a portal party company turning urine into fertilizer. I've got all, all, sorts, of, companies, in, there, so, that's, kind, of.
Do you guys support like natively? I mean, obviously anything's possible in an Excel sheet, but the advantage of this is that you guys kind of have these like kind of pre built kind of scenario models, right?
Do you guys already have existing models for usage based financial models? For example, if somebody uses more debt capital, but then you have like a minimum monthly threshold for amount they have to pay is that like as as a concept already existing in there?
Yeah, so we do have like a lot of standard builds like we like we have like a usage-based subscription build for example.
But like, but I would say it's 1 of those things where so a bunch of standard builds in the model and then we also have bunch of standard builds that our analysts kind of pull from in their building models and it's really kind of like a custom configuration kind of thing where there's a lot of standard objects.
We call like a template library. We're pulling from those or mixing and then we're customizing from there, you know, to make sure if I does get like a custom financial model.
But yeah, that's, there's scarcely or like a revenue model we haven't seen at this point.
I mean, we got 600 customers, but we've onboarded over a thousand. So I'd say like pretty good coverage on a lot of those.
We do pretty good job like documentation internally as well. And, and I'll also just say, like, we also have a great, library, of, templates, that, are, free, to, download, based models and those template builds as well.
So and a lot of other business models covered there as well. So, Yeah.
Any other final questions to you guys?
Cool.
Good. Stephen, thank you so much for coming in. Super, super appreciate it. I'm sure you'll be hearing from a few of these folks pretty soon.
Yeah, no, I, I really appreciate you guys. I appreciate you. Let me be a part of your Dexter's journey. I hope I was able to add some value to your days.
I know you got, I know you got companies around and you got a demo date of prep for and stuff like that.
So just appreciate you and, and I think, yeah, you guys got my email and all that kind of stuff.
So, you know, just, founder to founder. If I can ever be of service, if you ever think I can help you, like just.
Now that I'd happily raise my hand, you know, cause it, takes the village.
So, good luck out there. And on Monday next week.
Thank you.
You.
Thank you all. Okay.
Thank you, Stephen.
You guys.